# turtles-HWF-Brown

We will analyze a rich dataset on the basking behavior of green sea turtles. This is a collaboration between data scientists at the Center for Computation and Visualization at Brown University and the Hawaii Wildlife Fund, a non-profit wildlife conservation organization. Green sea turtles are endangered marine animals that bask or rest on beaches. Maui’s Ho’okipa beach hosts one of the largest and densest basking aggregations in the state of Hawaii. Volunteers from the Hawaii Wildlife Fund are stationed at the beach from approximately 2:30 – 7:30pm every day of the year with the exception of severe weather conditions (hurricane force winds, etc.). They have been recording human visitor and basking turtle counts on the beach for years. 

We developed a regression model to predict one day ahead how many turtles and humans will be on the beach as a function of expected weather and sea conditions and historical data.

## Prerequistes

We provide a yaml file to recreate our conda environment. To install and active the environment, please run

`conda env create -n turtle_env -f turtle_env.yml`

`conda activate turtle_env`

## Description

There are three ipython notebooks in `\src`. `data_collection.ipynb` loads and combines various datasources we collected and use. `data_explore.ipynb` performs EDA (exploratory data analysis) and generates a couple of figures. `ML_regression_AC.ipynb` contains the regression model, cross validation, and it visualizes the results.

`\data` contains all the data tables we use, and `\results` contains all the figures generated by the notebooks.

## Authors

Andras Zsom (andras_zsom@brown.edu) and Shiying Luo (shiying_luo@brown.edu).

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
